Postgres version policy and upgrade (#2189)
neondatabase/website: content/docs/postgresql/postgres-upgrade.md

enableTableOfContents: true
updatedOn: '2024-08-07T21:36:52.673Z'
---

This topic describes how to upgrade your Neon project from one **major** Postgres version to a newer one.

Postgres version numbers consist of a **major** and a **minor** version number. For example, in the version number 16.1, 16 is the major version number and the 1 is the minor version number.

Neon manages **minor** Postgres version upgrades for you, as per the [Neon Postgres Version Support Policy](/docs/postgresql/postgres-version-policy). Typically, no user action is required for **minor** version upgrades. Neon deploys minor versions soon after they become available. However, upgrading to a new major Postgres version is a manual task that must be performed by you.

Each Neon project is tied to a specific Postgres major version, which you select when creating a Neon project.

You can check your current Neon project's Postgres version in the **Project settings** widget on **Project Dashboard** or by running the following query from the [Neon SQL Editor](/docs/get-started-with-neon/query-with-neon-sql-editor) or any SQL client connection to your database:

```sql
SELECT version();
```

## Before you begin

> - Review the [PostgreSQL Release Notes](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/release.html) for the new Postgres version. New major Postgres versions typically introduce some user-visible incompatibilities. Review the release notes for these changes. Although you can upgrade from one major Postgres version to another without upgrading to intervening versions, be sure to review the release notes for intervening versions should you decide to skip a version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Review the [PostgreSQL Release Notes](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/release.html) for the new Postgres version. Major Postgres versions often introduce user-visible incompatibilities, so review the release notes for these changes. While you can upgrade directly to a new major Postgres version without going through each intermediate version, make sure you review the release notes for any skipped versions, as they may contain changes relevant to your upgrade.
```

Reviewer: Is skipping versions an option? Or is it applied automatically when a compute restarts?

- [Autoscaling](/docs/guides/autoscaling-guide)
- [Autosuspend](/docs/guides/auto-suspend-guide)
- [Protected branches](/docs/guides/protected-branches)
- [IP Allow](/docs/introduction/ip-allow)

### 2. Migrate your data using one of the following methods

**Dump and Restore**

Neon supports the following dump and restore options:

- [Migrate data with pg_dump and pg_restore](/docs/import/migrate-from-postgres)

  This method requires dumping data from your current Neon project with `pg_dump` and loading the data into the new Neon project using `pg_restore`.

- [Migrate data from one Neon project to another by piping data from pg_dump to pg_restore](/docs/import/migrate-from-neon)

  If your database is small, you can use this method to pipe `pg_dump` output directly to `pg_restore` to save time. While this method is a bit simpler, we recommend it only for small databases, as it is susceptible to failures during lengthy migration operations.

- [Migrate data with the @neondatabase/pg-import CLI](docs/import/migrate-from-postgres-pg-import)

  This experimental CLI utility is built on top of the piping method described above.

**Logical Replication**

> The logical replication method can be used to achieve a near-zero downtime migration. Once the data in the new Neon project his synced with the data in the Neon project running the older version of Postgres, you can quickly switch your applications to the database. This method is recommended for active databases that cannot afford much downtime. For instructions, see [Logical Replication](/docs/guides/logical-replication-neon-to-neon).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The logical replication method can be used to achieve a near-zero downtime migration. Once the data in the new Neon project is synced with the data in the Neon project running the older version of Postgres, you can quickly switch your applications to the database. This method is recommended for active databases that cannot afford much downtime. For instructions, see [Logical Replication](/docs/guides/logical-replication-neon-to-neon).
```
